Welcome back to part two of blending and pasting images so far and part one.
We've seen how to overlay images on top of each other by simply replacing values with a large image
with values of the smaller image for the desired region of interest or our eye.
But what if we actually only wanted to blend a replace part of the image.
So this is the sort of operations we've done so far so far we have on the left hand side this image
of a robot and then we can say that image one.
We have some secondary image image to open C-v logo and we know now how to overly images on top of each
other and we can do this as well for images that are different sizes by simply selecting in our A-Y
region of interest and then replacing the values there or blending the values there and then adding
those back in.
So we're already comfortable with this.
But what if we actually want to mask part of the smaller image.
If we take a look back at this example notice how the rest of that robot image becomes darker because
of the black parts of the open C-v logo.
But what if I wanted something that looks like the right image there I want to put the open Sibi logo
without having to reference any of that black material.
This is then going to need three stages.
We need the first image that we intend to paste on and then we actually need to build a mask and the
mask is only going to let certain parts of the image one filter through.
When we actually then paste it onto image too.
So that's what we're going to discuss right now.
How do we actually create these masks and then how we only let certain parts through of the smaller
image onto the larger image.
So we're going explore the syntax for these steps.
Keep in mind the syntax is actually really complicated.
This is not one of the strong suits of open C.v.
It actually takes a little bit of code in order to get things rolling and it's not quite intuitive at
first.
Now there are three really good supplemental links at the bottom the lecture notebook for you to explore
for other use cases.
But in this case just take it easy we're going to create the mask we really won't be doing anything
like this throughout the rest of the course so if you find that overly complex Keep in mind it kind
of just is.
And don't worry too much about understanding every single minute detail because we won't really be needing
it for the rest of the course.
With that being said though it's a good idea that we explore the syntax here.
Just see the capabilities of masking of open sibi.
Let's get started.
Welcome back.
We're continuing right where we left off in the last lecture.
Now it's time to blend together images of different sizes.
We're going to start this all over again by reloading these original images so I will grab over here
image one an image too just to make sure we don't have any of these overlay effects that we previously
then and then also when I'm going to do is run that resizing command.
That way the do not copy is quite a different size and we can lay it on top of the larger image
OK.
So I have image one that's the larger dog backpack image.
And then I have image too.
In this case they've already been color corrected.
The next that is the side where on the actual image do we want to blend in the do not copy.
So if I take a look at the image one and run that what I use to do is figure out a 600 by 600 space
on this image of where I actually want to do not copy to be blended.
And this is known as creating a region of interest.
So when our ally or region of interest we're going to grab one from the larger image essentially a 600
Bay 600 cube that I'm interested in blending the smaller image onto.
I could come up here and do the same thing we did last time to start at 0 0 but instead I'm going to
show you how to do it if you want to paste it at the bottom right.
So it's going to be a little bit tricky but hopefully this math makes sense to you.
Well we need to do is figure out what are the actual dimensions to grab in order to grab this bottom
chunk that is 600 by 600.
So if I check image one shape that's 14:1 and 9:34.
So on the y axis I have 12:46 on the X-axis 9 3 4 which means I need to figure out my starting X offset
my starting y offset and I can do that simply by saying the following.
I'll say X offset is equal to 93 for the very ends of the x axis here and then I'm going to subtract
600 from it to bring it back over here.
So I'll say minus 600.
All we're doing is we're starting at the very end of the x axis and then subtracting away the length
of the x axes of the smaller image.
And we're going to the same thing for y offset starting at the very end of y.
I'm going to subtract away 600 and that's going to then allow me to calculate the top left corner that
is 600 away from the ends of both x and y of the larger image.
So that is my X OFSAA and y offset for the bottom right corner essentially the opposite of setting 0
0 for the top left corner.
Now what I want to do is create an r y the same size of the foreground image the foreground image is
simply the smaller image that is going to go on top.
And if I check the image to dot shape notice it's against 600 by 600 by 3.
So that means I can use tuple and packing to reassign This will save rows columns and channels is equal
to image to dot shape.
This way we have generalized terms of rows which is 600 columns which in the special case since it's
a square image also happens to be 600 and then the channels happens to be three there's three color
channels there.
What I want to do now is actually grab the R Y.
It's a very similar process to what we did before.
My region of interest is merely the first image and I'm starting y offset and then I'm going to go all
the way to the end that 14:1 because I'm grabbing right now the bottom right corner.
And then I will go from my X offset to the defined and go all the way to that end which is nine three.
So that's my y.
If I show you my R Y and run that that's the bottom right hand corner of the image.
Notice that it's just the bottom of that backpack.
If I take a look at the original image all I'm doing is I'm grabbing this bottom corner by finding out
what my X OFSAA is.
Minus 600.
And then just going down all the way to the image because I literally calculate it by 600 off.
OK.
And what you could do is in general you could have subtracted the columns here and the rows there for
this x OFSAA and y offset so you could add them the shaping first.
Now the next step is to actually end up creating the mask and the mask is going to allow us to only
grab that red portion of the do not copy.
So will it come down here and let's make a new cell here.
And what we're going to do is start off by getting a gray scale version of the image we'll say image
to gray and then we're going to do here is say is equal to C-v to see the T color or passen the original
image image too.
And we're going to convert it to grayscale so we'll say CB2 color.
And I believe it's already in red green blue.
Then we'll say to
OK.
So we're going to run that command.
And now we have that grayscale image.
Let's go ahead and show it.
Make sure that worked out.
And right now it's using this as it's Color Mapping that doesn't really make sense in this case so to
change it to grayscale.
There we go.
And what I actually need is the inverse of this because right now this mass is essentially going to
block out with black all the red material.
So instead we want to do is the exact opposite of this.
I want to have in pure white.
What I want to show through for the do not copy because remember we're building up the mask right now.
And in order to do this we're going to say mask underscore I envy.
And we're going to calculate the inverse of this image and the way you can do that is through the CB2
bit.
Why is underscore not image too great.
So what this does is if you actually do shift tap here it's going to calculate on a per element's bitwise
the inversion of the input it's actually going to invert so that everything that's black is white and
everything that's white is black.
So let's try this out.
We're going to run this and we should see if we say peel t show the mask Inv. run that.
And now we notice it's the opposite.
And let's double check by changing the C mapping to be equal to gray run that and now we see we have
whitespace so that's going to allow anything to shine through which in this case is that red material
that we want that read do not copy.
Now unfortunately if you notice right now mask Inv. if we were to check the shape of this it no longer
contains color channels.
And what we need to do is add in those three channels again so that the two arrays are compatible of
each other.
The way we're going to fix that is a little bit of non-pay.
We're going to import some pie as an AP just in case we haven't done it already.
And then what I will say is white background and there's various ways you could actually build out what
you could do is just say and the ones make it have the same shape as image too.
And then multiply it by 255.
Well you can also do is use a function that we haven't actually seen yet.
But it is really useful.
It's not full and it's essentially going to take the step of one's times some value and do that for
us.
So you need to do is for Empey that fool you just pass in the shape that you want.
In our case we want the shape of the image to 600 by 600 and actually 600 600 by three.
And then you're going to decide what you actually want to spool of in case we want to full of 255.
And then to make sure it works nicely on certain operating systems you have to say the type is equal
to that you I.A. 8.
So go ahead and do that often if you forget that the types that it actually won't produce an error or
anything but just in case let's make sure we have everything in integers.
So now we have a white background.
So if I check on my right background its shape is now 600 by 600 by three.
So all I did here for the full command it takes in the shape of what you want the array to look like
what you want it to be full of.
So if actually check out white background.
It's just full of 255 integers and then that data type.
So we're going to make sure that Dave type matches the mask.
So we'll keep it as integers.
OK so that's our white background and then we're going to do is the following.
And this one's probably the more complex come in we're going to see today is B.K..
For background is equal to C-v to and we'll say bitwise OR and what bitwise OR the is it calculates
the per element.
Why is this junction of two arrays.
So what that actually means is going to do the following.
We're going to in source one source to and then the actual mask.
So we'll use the white background for both source one answers to end of the mass We're going to pass
in his mask underscore I envy.
So when you run that your background shape is now 600 600 by 3.
And if we show the actual background shape so all of us ended up doing was.
Now we have this do not copy the same figure across all three color channels.
And if this doesn't make sense to you this bitwise OR which essentially just grabbed these two white
backgrounds and then put that mask on top of them then what you could have also done is grabbed the
original mask Inv. and then just formatted it using them PI two more times for the other two color channels.
I recommend using this generalized bitwise OR operation though just in case you have a more complex
figure and you have more than just one color.
But all this really doing is we created a white background for all the color channels and then apply
that mask to it.
And when you apply that mask to it now you have 600 or by 603 where every single color channel now has
this do not copy image.
Next we're going to do is we're going to grab the original foreground image and place it on top of the
mass because right now this is actually still white.
So what I want to do is replace that with the original image which is red.
And what I'm going to do here is the following will say Kilty are actually when you say foreground is
equal to CB2 I'm going to say it wise or again and this time we'll do it with image to remember image
to the original do not copy and then we'll say mask is equal to mask underscore inverse.
So all it is doing is image to is our original image and for all three color channels all we're going
to say is put this mask on top of it which means when we actually run this and show it the only things
that are going to be coming out is what is in white which in our case is the do not copy so that aligns
pretty much exactly with the red material.
And this is how the mask is working.
You create the mask anything and white is what's going to be allowed to shine through and then use this
bitwise operator on your original image and you put that mask on top of it and now you have this image
show with the original colors plus anything you don't want is now in black.
OK so now it's just time to get the region of interest and then blend the mask with the our ally.
So our final are A-Y can be calculated by saying C-v to that wice or and in this case we're not going
to pass in umask pieces we just want to pass in the region of interest and the foreground.
And then if you can go ahead and see that final region of interest notice now that it's pretty much
space it only the red stuff and everything else has been kept intact.
And now all we need to do is add this into the rest of the image and we do that the exact same way we
overlaid images on top of each other using that large image is equal to image one.
And then the small image is now equal to that final region of interest.
And then we're just going to do the same them pay indexing we saw in the previous lecture will say large
image starting at y offset go to Y offset plus the small image shape which case is the final r y.
So small image say zero and then will say X offset go all the way to X offset plus the small image that
shape at 1 and we'll set that equal to the small image.
So run that and then let's see the final result.
So I'll say Kilty Imsure a large image.
And there you have it.
We successfully were able to put in the do not copy sign without having to worry.
But that do not copy white background.
So that's how we can then watermark or images.
I know it's a very complicated process and open CV is one of the few things that it really doesn't make
easy.
Keep in mind for this sort of thing you're probably going to be using normal software like Photoshop
or they'll be illustrator that sort of thing but you can definitely check out the notebook.
We have three really good links that provide additional tutorials on masking in case you ever find yourself
having to do this in your own applications.
OK.
So please feel free to review the notebook.
We have a lot more comments and definitely check out those three links at the bottom of that notebook.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.